Beginning at 1st level, while you are w earing no armor and not wielding a shield, your AC equals 10 + your Dexterity m odifier + your Wisdom modifier.
At 1st level, your practice o f martial arts gives you mastery o f combat styles that use unarmed strikes and monk w eapons, which are shortswords and any simple melee weapons that don’t have the two-handed or heavy property. You gain the following benefits while you are unarmed or wielding only m onk weapons and you aren’t wearing armor or w ielding a shield: • You can use Dexterity instead o f Strength for the attack and damage rolls o f your unarmed strikes and monk weapons. • You can roll a d4 in place o f the normal damage o f your unarmed strike or monk weapon. This die changes as you gain monk levels, as shown in the Martial Arts column of the Monk table. • When you use the Attack action with an unarmed strike or a monk weapon on your turn, you can make one unarmed strike as a bonus action. For example, if you take the Attack action and attack with a quarterstaff, you can also make an unarmed strike as a bonus action, assuming you haven't already taken a bonus action this turn. Certain monasteries use specialized forms o f the monk weapons. For example, you might use a club that is two lengths o f w o od connected by a short chain (called a nunchaku) or a sickle with a shorter, straighter blade (called a kama). Whatever name you use for a monk weapon, you can use the game statistics provided for the weapon in chapter 5.
Starting at 2nd level, your training allows you to harness the mystic energy o f ki. Your access to this energy is represented by a number of ki points. Your monk level determines the number o f points you have, as shown in the Ki Points column o f the Monk table. You can spend these points to fuel various ki features. You start knowing three such features: Flurry o f Blows, Patient Defense, and Step o f the Wind. You learn more ki features as you gain levels in this class. When you spend a ki point, it is unavailable until you finish a short or long rest, at the end o f which you draw all o f your expended ki back into yourself. You must spend at least 30 minutes o f the rest meditating to regain your ki points. Some o f your ki features require your target to make a saving throw to resist the feature’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Ki save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Wisdom modifier
Flurry of Blows Immediately after you take the Attack action on your turn, you can spend 1 ki point to make two unarmed strikes as a bonus action.
Patient Defense You can spend 1 ki point to take the Dodge action as a bonus action on your turn.
Step of the Wind You can spend 1 ki point to take the Disengage or Dash action as a bonus action on your turn, and your jump distance is doubled for the turn.
Starting at 2nd level, your speed increases by 10 feet while you are not w earing armor or w ielding a shield. This bonus increases when you reach certain monk levels, as shown in the Monk table. At 9th level, you gain the ability to move along vertical surfaces and across liquids on your turn without falling during the move.
Starting at 3rd level, you can use your reaction to deflect or catch the missile when you are hit by a ranged weapon attack. When you do so, the damage you take from the attack is reduced by 1d 10 + your Dexterity modifier + your monk level. If you reduce the damage to 0, you can catch the missile if it is small enough for you to hold in one hand and you have at least one hand free. If you catch a missile in this way, you can spend 1 ki point to make a ranged attack with the weapon or piece o f ammunition you just caught, as part o f the same reaction. You make this attack with proficiency, regardless o f your w eapon proficiencies, and the missile counts as a monk weapon for the attack.
Beginning at 4th level, you can use your reaction when you fall to reduce any falling damage you take by an amount equal to five times your monk level.
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Starting at 5th level, you can interfere with the flow of ki in an opponent’s body. When you hit another creature with a melee w eapon attack, you can spend 1 ki point to attempt a stunning strike. The target must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be stunned until the end of your next turn.
Starting at 6th level, your unarmed strikes count as magical for the purpose o f overcoming resistance and immunity to nonmagical attacks and damage.
At 7th level, your instinctive agility lets you dodge out o f the way o f certain area effects, such as a blue dragon’s lightning breath or a fireball spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
Starting at 7th level, you can use your action to end one effect on yourself that is causing you to be charmed or frightened.
At 10th level, your mastery o f the ki flowing through you makes you immune to disease and poison.
Starting at 13th level, you learn to touch the ki o f other minds so that you understand all spoken languages. Moreover, any creature that can understand a language can understand what you say.
Beginning at 14th level, your mastery o f ki grants you proficiency in all saving throws. Additionally, whenever you make a saving throw and fail, you can spend 1 ki point to reroll it and take the second result.
At 15th level, your ki sustains you so that you suffer none o f the frailty o f old age, and you can't be aged magically. You can still die o f old age, however. In addition, you no longer need food or water.
Beginning at 18th level, you can use your action to spend 4 ki points to become invisible for 1 minute. During that time, you also have resistance to all damage but force damage. Additionally, you can spend 8 ki points to cast the astral projection spell, without needing material components. When you do so, you can’t take any other creatures with you. 
At 20th level, when you roll for initiative and have no ki points remaining, you regain 4 ki points.
Starting when you choose this tradition at 3rd level, you can manipulate your enemy’s ki when you harness your own. Whenever you hit a creature with one o f the attacks granted by your Flurry of Blows, you can impose one o f the following effects on that target: • It must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be knocked prone. • It must make a Strength saving throw. If it fails, you can push it up to 15 feet away from you. • It can’t take reactions until the end o f your next turn.
At 6th level, you gain the ability to heal yourself. As an action, you can regain hit points equal to three times your monk level. You must finish a long rest before you can use this feature again.
Beginning at 11th level, you can enter a special meditation that surrounds you with an aura o f peace. At the end of a long rest, you gain the effect o f a sanctuary spell that lasts until the start o f your next long rest (the spell can end early as normal). The saving throw DC for the spell equals 8 + your W isdom modifier + your proficiency bonus.
At 17th level, you gain the ability to set up lethal vibrations in someone’s body. When you hit a creature with an unarmed strike, you can spend 3 ki points to start these imperceptible vibrations, which last for a number o f days equal to your monk level. The vibrations are harmless unless you use your action to end them. To do so, you and the target must be on the same plane o f existence. When you use this action, the creature must make a Constitution saving throw. If it fails, it is reduced to 0 hit points. If it succeeds, it takes 10d 10 necrotic damage. You can have only one creature under the effect o f this feature at a time. You can choose to end the vibrations harmlessly without using an action.
Starting when you choose this tradition at 3rd level, you can use your ki to duplicate the effects o f certain spells. As an action, you can spend 2 ki points to cast darkness, darkvision, pass without trace, or silence, without providing material components. Additionally, you gain the minor illusion cantrip if you don’t already know it.
At 6th level, you gain the ability to step from one shadow into another. When you are in dim light or darkness, as a bonus action you can teleport up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space you can see that is also in dim light or darkness. You then have advantage on the first melee attack you make before the end o f the turn.
By 11th level, you have learned to become one with the shadows. When you are in an area o f dim light or darkness, you can use your action to become invisible. You remain invisible until you make an attack, cast a spell, or are in an area o f bright light.
At 17th level, you can exploit a creature's momentary distraction when it is hit by an attack. Whenever a creature within 5 feet o f you is hit by an attack made by a creature other than you, you can use your reaction to make a melee attack against that creature.
Elemental Attunement: You can use your action to briefly control elemental forces nearby, causing one of the following effects o f your choice: • Create a harmless, instantaneous sensory effect related to air, earth, fire, or water, such as a shower of sparks, a puff o f wind, a spray o f light mist, or a gentle rumbling o f stone. • Instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire. • Chill or warm up to 1 pound o f nonliving material for up to 1 hour. • Cause earth, fire, water, or mist that can fit within a 1-foot cube to shape itself into a crude form you designate for 1 minute.
Fangs o f the Fire Snake: When you use the Attack action on your turn, you can spend 1 ki point to cause tendrils o f flame to stretch out from your fists and feet. Your reach with your unarmed strikes increases by 10 feet for that action, as well as the rest o f the turn. A hit with such an attack deals fire damage instead of bludgeoning damage, and if you spend 1 ki point when the attack hits, it also deals an extra 1d 10 fire damage.
Fist o f Four Thunders: You can spend 2 ki points to cast thunderwave.
Fist o f Unbroken Air: You can create a blast of compressed air that strikes like a mighty fist. As an action, you can spend 2 ki points and choose a creature within 30 feet o f you. That creature must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3 d 10 bludgeoning damage, plus an extra 1d10 bludgeoning damage for each additional ki point you spend, and you can push the creature up to 20 feet away from you and knock it prone. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage, and you don’t push it or knock it prone.
Rush o f the Gale Spirits: You can spend 2 ki points to cast gust o f wind.
Shape the Flowing River: As an action, you can spend 1 ki point to choose an area o f ice or water no larger than 30 feet on a side within 120 feet o f you. You can change water to ice within the area and v ice versa, and you can reshape ice in the area in any manner you choose. You can raise or lower the ice’s elevation, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall, or form a pillar. The extent o f any such changes can’t exceed half the area’s largest dimension. For example, if you affect a 30-foot square, you can create a pillar up to 15 feet high, raise or lower the square’s elevation by up to 15 feet, dig a trench up to 15 feet deep, and so on. You can’t shape the ice to trap or injure a creature in the area.
Sweeping Cinder Strike: You can spend 2 ki points to cast burning hands.
Water Whip: You can spend 2 ki points as a bonus action to create a whip o f water that shoves and pulls a creature to unbalance it. A creature that you can see that is within 30 feet o f you must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3 d 10 bludgeoning damage, plus an extra 1d 10 bludgeoning damage for each additional ki point you spend, and you can either knock it prone or pull it up to 25 feet closer to you. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage, and you don’t pull it or knock it prone.
Clench o f the North Wind: You can spend 3 ki points to cast hold person.
Gong o f the Summit: You can spend 3 ki points to cast shatter.
Eternal Mountain Defense: You can spend 5 ki points to cast stoneskin, targetting yourself.
Flames o f the Phoenix: You can spend 4 ki points to cast fireball.
Mist Stance: You can spend 4 ki points to cast gaseous form, targeting yourself.
Ride the Wind: You can spend 4 ki points to cast fly, targeting yourself.
Breath o f Winter: You can spend 6 ki points to cast cone o f cold.
River o f Hungry Flame: You can spend 5 ki points to cast wall of fire.
Wave o f Rolling Earth: You can spend 6 ki points to cast wall of stone.