At 1st level, choose two o f your skill proficiencies, or one o f your skill proficiencies and your proficiency with thieves’ tools. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses either o f the chosen proficiencies. At 6th level, you can choose two more o f your proficiencies (in skills or with thieves’ tools) to gain this benefit.
Beginning at 1st level, you know how to strike subtly and exploit a foe’s distraction. Once per turn, you can deal an extra 1d6 damage to one creature you hit with an attack if you have advantage on the attack roll. The attack must use a finesse or a ranged w eapon. You don’t need advantage on the attack roll if another enemy o f the target is within 5 feet o f it, that enemy isn’t incapacitated, and you don’t have disadvantage on the attack roll. The amount o f the extra damage increases as you gain levels in this class, as shown in the Sneak Attack column o f the Rogue table.
During your rogue training you learned thieves’ cant, a secret mix o f dialect, jargon, and code that allows you to hide messages in seemingly normal conversation. Only another creature that knows thieves’ cant understands such messages. It takes four times longer to convey such a message than it does to speak the same idea plainly. In addition, you understand a set o f secret signs and symbols used to convey short, simple messages, such as whether an area is dangerous or the territory o f a thieves’ guild, whether loot is nearby, or whether the people in an area are easy marks or w ill provide a safe house for thieves on the run.
Starting at 2nd level, your quick thinking and agility allow you to move and act quickly. You can take a bonus action on each o f your turns in combat. This action can b e used only to take the Dash, Disengage, or Hide action.
Starting at 5th level, when an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack’s damage against you.
Beginning at 7th level, you can nimbly dodge out o f the way o f certain area effects, such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or an ice storm spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail.
By 11th level, you have refined your chosen skills until they approach perfection. Whenever you make an ability check that lets you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll o f 9 or lower as a 10.
Starting at 14th level, if you are able to hear, you are aware o f the location o f any hidden or invisible creature within 10 feet o f you. 
By 15th level, you have acquired greater mental strength. You gain proficiency in W isdom saving throws.
Beginning at 18th level, you are so evasive that attackers rarely gain the upper hand against you. No attack roll has advantage against you while you aren’t incapacitated.
At 20th level, you have an uncanny knack for succeeding when you need to. If your attack m isses a target within range, you can turn the miss into a hit. Alternatively, if you fail an ability check, you can treat the d20 roll as a 20. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
Starting at 3rd level, you can use the bonus action granted by your Cunning A ction to make a Dexterity (Sleight o f Hand) check, use your thieves’ tools to disarm a trap or open a lock, or take the Use an Object action.
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain the ability to climb faster than normal; climbing no longer costs you extra movement. In addition, when you make a running jump, the distance you cover increases by a number o f feet equal to your Dexterity modifier.
Starting at 9th level, you have advantage on a Dexterity (Stealth) check if you move no more than half your speed on the same turn
By 13th level, you have learned enough about the workings o f magic that you can improvise the use of items even when they are not intended for you. You ignore all class, race, and level requirements on the use of magic items.
When you reach 17th level, you have become adept at laying ambushes and quickly escaping danger. You can take two turns during the first round o f any combat. You take your first turn at your normal initiative and your second turn at your initiative minus 10. You can’t use this feature when you are surprised.
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain proficiency with the disguise kit and the poisoner’s kit.
Starting at 3rd level, you are at your deadliest when you get the drop on your enemies. You have advantage on attack rolls against any creature that hasn’t taken a turn in the combat yet. In addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit.
Starting at 9th level, you can unfailingly create false identities for yourself. You must spend seven days and 25 gp to establish the history, profession, and affiliations for an identity. You can’t establish an identity that belongs to someone else. For example, you might acquire appropriate clothing, letters of introduction, and officiallooking certification to establish yourself as a member of a trading house from a remote city so you can insinuate yourself into the company o f other wealthy merchants. Thereafter, if you adopt the new identity as a disguise, other creatures believe you to be that person until given an obvious reason not to.
At 13th level, you gain the ability to unerringly m imic another person’s speech, writing, and behavior. You must spend at least three hours studying these three components of the person’s behavior, listening to speech, examining handwriting, and observing mannerisms. Your ruse is indiscernible to the casual observer. If a wary creature suspects something is amiss, you have advantage on any Charisma (Deception) check you make to avoid detection.
Starting at 17th level, you become a master o f instant death. When you attack and hit a creature that is surprised, it must make a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + your Dexterity modifier + your proficiency bonus). On a failed save, double the damage of your attack against the creature.
Starting at 3rd level, when you cast mage hand, you can make the spectral hand invisible, and you can perform the following additional tasks with it: • You can stow one object the hand is holding in a container w orn or carried by another creature. • You can retrieve an object in a container worn or carried by another creature. • You can use thieves’ tools to pick locks and disarm traps at range. You can perform one o f these tasks without being noticed by a creature if you succeed on a Dexterity (Sleight o f Hand) check contested by the creature’s Wisdom (Perception) check. In addition, you can use the bonus action granted by your Cunning Action to control the hand.
Starting at 9th level, if you are hidden from a creature when you cast a spell on it, the creature has disadvantage on any saving throw it makes against the spell this turn.
At 13th level, you gain the ability to distract targets with your mage hand. As a bonus action on your turn, you can designate a creature within 5 feet o f the spectral hand created by the spell. Doing so gives you advantage on attack rolls against that creature until the end of the turn.
At 17th level, you gain the ability to magically steal the knowledge o f how to cast a spell from another spellcaster. Immediately after a creature casts a spell that targets you or includes you in its area o f effect, you can use your reaction to force the creature to make a saving throw with its spellcasting ability modifier. The DC equals your spell save DC. On a failed save, you negate the spell’s effect against you, and you steal the knowledge o f the spell if it is at least 1st level and o f a level you can cast (it doesn’t need to be a wizard spell). For the next 8 hours, you know the spell and can cast it using your spell slots. The creature can’t cast that spell until the 8 hours have passed. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.