At 2nd level, you tap into a deep wellspring o f magic within yourself. This w ellspring is represented by sorcery points, which allow you to create a variety o f magical effects. You have 2 sorcery points, and you gain more as you reach higher levels, as shown in the Sorcery Points column o f the Sorcerer table. You can never have more sorcery points than shown on the table for your level. You regain all spent sorcery points when you finish a long rest. You can use your sorcery points to gain additional spell slots, or sacrifice spell slots to gain additional sorcery points. You learn other ways to use your sorcery points as you reach higher levels. Creating Spell Slots. You can transform unexpended sorcery points into one spell slot as a bonus action on your turn. The Creating Spell Slots table shows the cost o f creating a spell slot o f a given level. You can create spell slots no higher in level than 5th. Converting a Spell Slot to Sorcery Points. As a bonus action on your turn, you can expend one spell slot and gain a number o f sorcery points equal to the slot’s level.
At 3rd level, you gain the ability to twist your spells to suit your needs. You gain two o f the following Metamagic options o f your choice. You gain another one at 10th and 17th level. You can use only one Metamagic option on a spell when you cast it, unless otherwise noted.
At 20th level, you regain 4 expended
At 1st level, you choose one type o f dragon as your ancestor. The damage type associated with each dragon is used by features you gain later. sorcery points whenever you finish a short rest. You can speak, read, and write Draconic. Additionally, whenever you make a Charisma check when interacting with dragons, your proficiency bonus is doubled if it applies to the check.
As magic flows through your body, it causes physical traits o f your dragon ancestors to emerge. At 1st level, your hit point maximum increases by 1 and increases by 1 again whenever you gain a level in this class. Additionally, parts o f your skin are covered by a thin sheen of dragon-like scales. When you aren’t w earing armor, your AC equals 13 + your Dexterity modifier.
Starting at 6th level, when you cast a spell that deals damage o f the type associated with your draconic ancestry, add your Charisma modifier to that damage. At the same time, you can spend 1 sorcery point to gain resistance to that damage type for 1 hour.
At 14th level, you gain the ability to sprout a pair of dragon wings from your back, gaining a flying speed equal to your current speed. You can create these w ings as a bonus action on your turn. They last until you dismiss them as a bonus action on your turn. You can’t manifest your w ings while wearing armor unless the armor is made to accommodate them, and clothing not made to accommodate your wings might be destroyed when you manifest them.
Beginning at 18th level, you can channel the dread presence o f your dragon ancestor, causing those around you to become awestruck or frightened. As an action, you can spend 5 sorcery points to draw on this power and exude an aura of awe or fear (your choice) to a distance o f 60 feet. For 1 minute or until you lose your concentration (as if you w ere casting a concentration spell), each hostile creature that starts its turn in this aura must succeed on a W isdom saving throw or be charmed (if you chose awe) or frightened (if you chose fear) until the aura ends. A creature that succeeds on this saving throw is immune to your aura for 24 hours.
Starting when you choose this origin at 1st level, your spellcasting can unleash surges o f untamed magic. Immediately after you cast a sorcerer spell o f 1st level or higher, the DM can have you roll a d20. If you roll a 1, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table to create a random magical effect.
Starting at 1st level, you can manipulate the forces o f chance and chaos to gain advantage on one attack roll, ability check, or saving throw. Once you do so, you must finish a long rest before you can use this feature again. Any time before you regain the use of this feature, the DM can have you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table immediately after you cast a sorcerer spell of 1st level or higher. You then regain the use of this feature.
Starting at 6th level, you have the ability to twist fate using your wild magic. When another creature you can see makes an attack roll, an ability check, or a saving throw, you can use your reaction and spend 2 sorcery points to roll 1d4 and apply the number rolled as a bonus or penalty (your choice) to the creature’s roll. You can do so after the creature rolls but before any effects o f the roll occur.
At 14th level, you gain a modicum o f control over the surges o f your wild magic. Whenever you roll on the Wild Magic Surge table, you can roll twice and use either number.
Beginning at 18th level, the harmful energy o f your spells intensifies. When you roll damage for a spell and roll the highest number possible on any of the dice, choose one o f those dice, roll it again and add that roll to the damage. You can use the feature only once per turn.
Careful Spell: When you cast a spell that forces other creatures to make a saving throw, you can protect some o f those creatures from the spell’s full force. To do so, you spend 1 sorcery point and choose a number o f those creatures up to your Charisma modifier (minimum o f one creature). A chosen creature automatically succeeds on its saving throw against the spell.
Distant Spell: When you cast a spell that has a range o f 5 feet or greater, you can spend 1 sorcery point to double the range o f the spell. When you cast a spell that has a range o f touch, you can spend 1 sorcery point to make the range o f the spell 30 feet. 
Empowered Spell: When you roll damage for a spell, you can spend 1 sorcery point to reroll a number o f the damage dice up to your Charisma modifier (minimum of one). You must use the new rolls. You can use Empowered Spell even if you have already used a different Metamagic option during the casting o f the spell.
Extended Spell: When you cast a spell that has a duration o f 1 minute or longer, you can spend 1 sorcery point to double its duration, to a maximum duration o f 24 hours.
Heightened Spell: When you cast a spell that forces a creature to make a saving throw to resist its effects, you can spend 3 sorcery points to give one target of the spell disadvantage on its first saving throw made against the spell.
Quickened Spell: When you cast a spell that has a casting time o f 1 action, you can spend 2 sorcery points to change the casting time to 1 bonus action for this casting.
Subtle Spell: When you cast a spell, you can spend 1 sorcery point to cast it without any somatic or verbal components
Twinned Spell: When you cast a spell that targets only one creature and doesn’t have a range o f self, you can spend a number of sorcery points equal to the spell’s level to target a second creature in range with the same spell (1 sorcery point if the spell is a cantrip).