You have a limited well o f stamina that you can draw on to protect yourself from harm. On your turn, you can use a bonus action to regain hit points equal to 1d 10 + your fighter level. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again.
Starting at 2nd level, you can push yourself beyond your normal limits for a moment. On your turn, you can take one additional action on top o f your regular action and a possible bonus action. Once you use this feature, you must finish a short or long rest before you can use it again. Starting at 17th level, you can use it twice before a rest, but only once on the same turn.
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead o f once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn. The number o f attacks increases to three when you reach 11th level in this class and to four when you reach 20th level in this class.
Beginning at 9th level, you can reroll a saving throw that you fail. If you do so, you must use the new roll, and you can’t use this feature again until you finish a long rest. You can use this feature twice between long rests starting at 13th level and three times between long rests starting at 17th level.
Beginning when you choose this archetype at 3rd level, your weapon attacks sco re a critical hit on a roll o f 19 or 20.
Starting at 7th level, you can add half your proficiency bonus (round up) to any Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution check you make that doesn’t already use your proficiency bonus. In addition, when you make a running long jump, the distance you can cover increases by a number o f feet equal to your Strength modifier.
At 10th level, you can choose a second option from the Fighting Style class feature.
Starting at 15th level, your w eapon attacks score a critical hit on a roll of 18-20.
At 18th level, you attain the pinnacle o f resilience in battle. At the start o f each o f your turns, you regain hit points equal to 5 + your Constitution modifier if you have no more than half o f your hit points left. You don’t gain this benefit if you have 0 hit points.
At 3rd level, you gain proficiency with one type of artisan’s tools o f your choice
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you learn maneuvers that are fueled by special dice called superiority dice. Maneuvers. You learn three maneuvers o f your choice, which are detailed under “Maneuvers” below. Many maneuvers enhance an attack in some way. You can use only one maneuver per attack. You learn two additional maneuvers o f your choice at 7th, 10th, and 15th level. Each time you learn new maneuvers, you can also replace one maneuver you know with a different one. Superiority Dice. You have four superiority dice, which are d8s. A superiority die is expended when you use it. You regain all o f your expended superiority dice when you finish a short or long rest. You gain another superiority die at 7th level and one more at 15th level. Saving Throws. Some o f your maneuvers require your target to make a saving throw to resist the maneuver’s effects. The saving throw DC is calculated as follows: Maneuver save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice)
Starting at 7th level, if you spend at least 1 minute observing or interacting with another creature outside combat, you can learn certain information about its capabilities compared to your own. The DM tells you if the creature is your equal, superior, or inferior in regard to two of the following characteristics of your choice: • Strength score • Dexterity score • Constitution score • Armor Class • Current hit points • Total class levels (if any) • Fighter class levels (if any)
At 10th level, your superiority dice turn into d10s. At 18th level, they turn into d l2 s .
Starting at 15th level, when you roll initiative and have no superiority dice remaining, you regain 1 superiority die.
At 3rd level, you learn a ritual that creates a magical bond between yourself and one weapon. You perform the ritual over the course o f 1 hour, which can be done during a short rest. The w eapon must be within your reach throughout the ritual, at the conclusion o f which you touch the weapon and forge the bond. Once you have bonded a weapon to yourself, you can’t be disarmed o f that w eapon unless you are incapacitated. If it is on the same plane of existence, you can summon that weapon as a bonus action on your turn, causing it to teleport instantly to your hand. You can have up to two bonded w eapons, but can summon only one at a time with your bonus action. If you attempt to bond with a third w eapon, you must break the bond with one o f the other two.
Beginning at 7th level, when you use your action to cast a cantrip, you can make one w eapon attack as a bonus action.
At 10th level, you learn how to make your weapon strikes undercut a creature’s resistance to your spells. When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, that creature has disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes against a spell you cast before the end of your next turn.
At 15th level, you gain the ability to teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see when you use your Action Surge. You can teleport before or after the additional action.
Starting at 18th level, when you use your action to cast a spell, you can make one w eapon attack as a bonus action.
Commander’s Strike: When you take the Attack action on your turn, you can forgo one o f your attacks and use a bonus action to direct one o f your companions to strike. When you do so, choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you and expend one superiority die. That creature can immediately use its reaction to make one w eapon attack, adding the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.
Disarming Attack: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to disarm the target, forcing it to drop one item o f your choice that it’s holding. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, it drops the object you choose. The object lands at its feet.
Distracting Strike: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to distract the creature, giving your allies an opening. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll. The next attack roll against the target by an attacker other than you has advantage if the attack is made before the start o f your next turn.
Evasive Footwork: When you move, you can expend one superiority die, rolling the die and adding the number rolled to your AC until you stop moving.
Feinting Attack: You can expend one superiority die and use a bonus action on your turn to feint, choosing one creature within 5 feet o f you as your target. You have advantage on your next attack roll against that creature. If that attack hits, add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll.
Goading Attack: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to goad the target into attacking you. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on all attack rolls against targets other than you until the end of your next turn.
Lunging Attack: When you make a melee weapon attack on your turn, you can expend one superiority die to increase your reach for that attack by 5 feet. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll
Maneuvering Attack: When you hit a creature with a w eapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to maneuver one o f your comrades into a more advantageous position. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and you choose a friendly creature who can see or hear you. That creature can use its reaction to move up to half its speed without provoking opportunity attacks from the target o f your attack.
Menacing Attack: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to frighten the target. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and the target must make a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, it is frightened o f you until the end o f your next turn.
Parry: When another creature damages you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to reduce the damage by the number you roll on your superiority die + your Dexterity modifier.
Precision Attack: When you make a weapon attack roll against a creature, you can expend one superiority die to add it to the roll. You can use this maneuver before or after making the attack roll, but before any effects o f the attack are applied.
Pushing Attack: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to drive the target back. You add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you push the target up to 15 feet away from you.
Rally: On your turn, you can use a bonus action and expend one superiority die to bolster the resolve o f one o f your companions. When you do so, choose a friendly creature w ho can see or hear you. That creature gains temporary hit points equal to the superiority die roll + your Charisma modifier.
Riposte. When a creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction and expend one superiority die to make a melee weapon attack against the creature. If you hit, you add the superiority die to the attack's damage roll.
Sweeping Attack: When you hit a creature with a melee w eapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to damage another creature with the same attack. Choose another creature within 5 feet o f the original target and within your reach. If the original attack roll w ould hit the second creature, it takes damage equal to the number you roll on your superiority die. The damage is o f the same type dealt by the original attack.
Trip Attack: When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, you can expend one superiority die to attempt to knock the target down. You add the superiority die to the attack’s damage roll, and if the target is Large or smaller, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, you knock the target prone.