The presence o f strong evil registers on your senses like a noxious odor, and powerful good rings like heavenly music in your ears. As an action, you can open your awareness to detect such forces. Until the end o f your next turn, you know the location o f any celestial, fiend, or undead within 60 feet o f you that is not behind total cover. You know the type (celestial, fiend, or undead) o f any being w hose presence you sense, but not its identity (the vampire Count Strahd von Zarovich, for instance). Within the same radius, you also detect the presence o f any place or object that has been consecrated or desecrated, as with the hallow spell. You can use this feature a number of times equal to 1 + your Charisma modifier. When you finish a long rest, you regain all expended uses.
Your blessed touch can heal wounds. You have a pool o f healing power that replenishes when you take a long rest. With that pool, you can restore a total number of hit points equal to your paladin level x 5. As an action, you can touch a creature and draw power from the pool to restore a number o f hit points to that creature, up to the maximum amount remaining in your pool. Alternatively, you can expend 5 hit points from your pool o f healing to cure the target o f one disease or neutralize one poison affecting it. You can cure multiple diseases and neutralize multiple poisons with a single use o f Lay on Hands, expending hit points separately for each one. This feature has no effect on undead and constructs.
At 2nd level, you adopt a style o f fighting as your specialty. //WILL NEED GUI INPUT ON LEVEL UP OR CREATION ABOVE THIS LEVEL
Starting at 2nd level, when you hit a creature with a melee w eapon attack, you can expend one paladin spell slot to deal radiant damage to the target, in addition to the w eapon’s damage. The extra damage is 2d8 for a 1st-level spell slot, plus 1d8 for each spell level higher than 1st, to a maximum o f 5d8. The damage increases by 1d8 if the target is an undead or a fiend.
By 3rd level, the divine magic flowing through you makes you immune to disease.
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead o f once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Starting at 6th level, whenever you or a friendly creature within 10 feet o f you must make a saving throw, the creature gains a bonus to the saving throw equal to your Charisma modifier (with a minimum bonus o f +1). You must be conscious to grant this bonus. At 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.
Starting at 10th level, you and friendly creatures within 10 feet o f you can’t be frightened while you are conscious. At 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.
By 11th level, you are so suffused with righteous might that all your melee w eapon strikes carry divine power with them. Whenever you hit a creature with a melee w eapon, the creature takes an extra 1d8 radiant damage. If you also use your Divine Smite with an attack, you add this damage to the extra damage o f your Divine Smite.
Beginning at 14th level, you can use your action to end one spell on yourself or on one willing creature that you touch. You can use this feature a number o f times equal to your Charisma modifier (a minimum o f once). You regain expended uses when you finish a long rest.
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the following two Channel Divinity options. Sacred Weapon. As an action, you can imbue one weapon that you are holding with positive energy, using your Channel Divinity. For 1 minute, you add your Charisma modifier to attack rolls made with that weapon (with a minimum bonus o f +1). The weapon also emits bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light 20 feet beyond that. If the weapon is not already magical, it becomes magical for the duration. You can end this effect on your turn as part o f any other action. If you are no longer holding or carrying this w eapon, or if you fall unconscious, this effect ends. Turn the Unholy. As an action, you present your holy symbol and speak a prayer censuring fiends and undead, using your Channel Divinity. Each fiend or undead that can see or hear you within 30 feet o f you must make a W isdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet o f you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action.
Starting at 7th level, you and friendly creatures within 10 feet o f you can’t be charmed while you are conscious. At 18th level, the range of this aura increases to 30 feet.
Beginning at 15th level, you are always under the effects o f a protection from evil and good spell.
At 20th level, as an action, you can emanate an aura of sunlight. For 1 minute, bright light shines from you in a 30-foot radius, and dim light shines 30 feet beyond that. Whenever an enemy creature starts its turn in the bright light, the creature takes 10 radiant damage. In addition, for the duration, you have advantage on saving throws against spells cast by fiends or undead. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the following two Channel Divinity options. Nature’s Wrath. You can use your Channel Divinity to invoke primeval forces to ensnare a foe. As an action, you can cause spectral vines to spring up and reach for a creature within 10 feet o f you that you can see. The creature must succeed on a Strength or Dexterity saving throw (its choice) or be restrained. While restrained by the vines, the creature repeats the saving throw at the end o f each o f its turns. On a success, it frees itself and the v ines vanish. Turn the Faithless. You can use your Channel Divinity to utter ancient w ords that are painful for fey and fiends to hear. As an action, you present your holysymbol, and each fey or fiend within 30 feet o f you that can hear you must make a W isdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is turned for 1 minute or until it takes damage. A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space within 30 feet o f you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the creature can use the Dodge action. If the creature’s true form is concealed by an illusion, shapeshifting, or other effect, that form is revealed while it is turned.
Beginning at 7th level, ancient magic lies so heavily upon you that it forms an eldritch ward. You and friendly creatures within 10 feet o f you have resistance to damage from spells. At 18th level, the range o f this aura increases to 30 feet.
Starting at 15th level, when you are reduced to 0 hit points and are not killed outright, you can choose to drop to 1 hit point instead. Once you use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest. Additionally, you suffer none o f the drawbacks o f old age, and you can’t be aged magically.
At 20th level, you can assume the form o f an ancient force of nature, taking on an appearance you choose. For example, your skin might turn green or take on a bark-like texture, your hair might become leafy or mosslike, or you might sprout antlers or a lion-like mane. Using your action, you undergo a transformation. For 1 minute, you gain the following benefits: • At the start o f each o f your turns, you regain 10 hit points. • Whenever you cast a paladin spell that has a casting time o f 1 action, you can cast it using a bonus action instead. • Enemy creatures within 10 feet o f you have disadvantage on saving throws against your paladin spells and Channel Divinity options. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.
When you take this oath at 3rd level, you gain the following two Channel Divinity options. Abjure Enemy. As an action, you present your holy symbol and speak a prayer o f denunciation, using your Channel Divinity. Choose one creature within 60 feet o f you that you can see. That creature must make a Wisdom saving throw, unless it is immune to being frightened. Fiends and undead have disadvantage on this saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is frightened for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. While frightened, the creature’s speed is 0, and it can’t benefit from any bonus to its speed. On a successful save, the creature’s speed is halved for 1 minute or until the creature takes any damage. Vow o f Enmity. As a bonus action, you can utter a vow o f enmity against a creature you can see within 10 feet o f you, using your Channel Divinity. You gain advantage on attack rolls against the creature for 1 minute or until it drops to 0 hit points or falls unconscious.
By 7th level, your supernatural focus helps you close off a foe’s retreat. When you hit a creature with an opportunity attack, you can move up to half your speed immediately after the attack and as part of the same reaction. This movement doesn’t provoke opportunity attacks.
Starting at 15th level, the authority with which you speak your Vow o f Enmity gives you greater power over your foe. When a creature under the effect o f your Vow o f Enmity m akes an attack, you can use your reaction to make a melee weapon attack against that creature if it is within range.
At 20th level, you can assume the form o f an angelic avenger. Using your action, you undergo a transformation. For 1 hour, you gain the following benefits: • Wings sprout from your back and grant you a flying speed o f 60 feet. • You emanate an aura o f menace in a 30-foot radius. The first time any enemy creature enters the aura or starts its turn there during a battle, the creature must succeed on a W isdom saving throw or become frightened of you for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. Attack rolls against the frightened creature have advantage. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest.