Beginning at 1st level, you have significant experience studying, tracking, hunting, and even talking to a certain type o f enemy. Choose a type o f favored enemy: aberrations, beasts, celestials, constructs, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, giants, monstrosities, oozes, plants, or undead. Alternatively, you can select two races o f humanoid (such as gnolls and orc s) as favored enemies. You have advantage on W isdom (Survival) checks to track your favored enemies, as w ell as on Intelligence checks to recall information about them. When you gain this feature, you also learn one language o f your choice that is spoken by your favored enemies, if they speak one at all. You choose one additional favored enemy, as well as an associated language, at 6th and 14th level. As you gain levels, your choices should reflect the types of monsters you have encountered on your adventures.
You are particularly familiar with one type o f natural environment and are adept at traveling and surviving in such regions. Choose one type o f favored terrain: arctic, coast, desert, forest, grassland, mountain, swamp, or the Underdark. When you make an Intelligence or Wisdom check related to your favored terrain, your proficiency bonus is doubled if you are using a skill that you’re proficient in. While traveling for an hour or m ore in your favored terrain, you gain the following benefits: • Difficult terrain doesn’t slow your group’s travel. • Your group can’t become lost except by magical means. • Even when you are engaged in another activity while traveling (such as foraging, navigating, or tracking), you remain alert to danger. • If you are traveling alone, you can move stealthily at a normal pace. • When you forage, you find twice as much food as you normally would. • While tracking other creatures, you also learn their exact number, their sizes, and how long ago they passed through the area. You choose additional favored terrain types at 6th and 10th level.
At 2nd level, you adopt a particular style o f fighting as your specialty. Choose one o f the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.
Beginning at 3rd level, you can use your action and expend one ranger spell slot to focus your awareness on the region around you. For 1 minute per level o f the spell slot you expend, you can sense whether the following types of creatures are present within 1 mile of you (or within up to 6 miles if you are in your favored terrain): aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead. This feature doesn’t reveal the creatures’ location or number.
Beginning at 5th level, you can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Starting at 8th level, moving through nonmagical difficult terrain costs you no extra movement. You can also pass through nonmagical plants without being slowed by them and without taking damage from them if they have thorns, spines, or a similar hazard. In addition, you have advantage on saving throws against plants that are magically created or manipulated to impede movement, such those created by the entangle spell.
Starting at 10th level, you can spend 1 minute creating camouflage for yourself. You must have access to fresh mud, dirt, plants, soot, and other naturally o ccurring materials with which to create your camouflage. Once you are camouflaged in this way, you can try to hide by p ressing yourself up against a solid surface, such as a tree or wall, that is at least as tall and w ide as you are. You gain a +10 bonus to Dexterity (Stealth) checks as long as you remain there without moving or taking actions. Once you move or take an action or a reaction, you must camouflage yourself again to gain this benefit.
Starting at 14th level, you can use the Hide action as a bonus action on your turn. Also, you can’t be tracked by nonmagical means, unless you choose to leave a trail.
At 18th level, you gain preternatural senses that help you fight creatures you can’t see. When you attack a creature you can’t see, your inability to see it doesn’t impose disadvantage on your attack rolls against it. You are also aware o f the location o f any invisible creature within 30 feet o f you, provided that the creature isn’t hidden from you and you aren’t blinded or deafened.
At 20th level, you become an unparalleled hunter o f your enemies. Once on each o f your turns, you can add your Wisdom modifier to the attack roll or the damage roll of an attack you make against one o f your favored enemies. You can choose to use this feature before or after the roll, but before any effects of the roll are applied.
At 3rd level, you gain one o f the following features o f your choice. Colossus Slayer. Your tenacity can w ear down the most potent foes. When you hit a creature with a weapon attack, the creature takes an extra 1d8 damage if it’s below its hit point maximum. You can deal this extra damage only once per turn. Giant Killer. When a Large or larger creature within 5 feet o f you hits or misses you with an attack, you can use your reaction to attack that creature immediately after its attack, provided that you can see the creature. Horde Breaker. Once on each o f your turns when you make a w eapon attack, you can make another attack with the same weapon against a different creature that is within 5 feet o f the original target and within range o f your weapon.
At 7th level, you gain one o f the following features o f your choice. Escape the Horde. Opportunity attacks against you are made with disadvantage. Multiattack Defense. When a creature hits you with an attack, you gain a +4 bonus to AC against all subsequent attacks made by that creature for the rest o f the turn. Steel Will. You have advantage on saving throws against being frightened.
At 11th level, you gain one of the following features o f your choice. Volley. You can use your action to make a ranged attack against any number o f creatures within 10 feet o f a point you can see within your w eapon’s range. You must have ammunition for each target, as normal, and you make a separate attack roll for each target. Whirlwind Attack. You can use your action to make a melee attack against any number o f creatures within 5 feet o f you, with a separate attack roll for each target.
At 15th level, you gain one o f the following features o f your choice. Evasion. You can nimbly dodge out of the way o f certain area effects, such as a red dragon’s fiery breath or a lightning bolt spell. When you are subjected to an effect that allows you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed on the saving throw, and only half damage if you fail. Stand Against the Tide. When a hostile creature misses you with a melee attack, you can use your reaction to force that creature to repeat the same attack against another creature (other than itself) o f your choice. Uncanny Dodge. When an attacker that you can see hits you with an attack, you can use your reaction to halve the attack’s damage against you.
At 3rd level, you gain a beast companion that accompanies you on your adventures and is trained to fight alongside you. Choose a beast that is no larger than Medium and that has a challenge rating o f 1/4 or lower (appendix D presents statistics for the hawk, mastiff, and panther as examples). Add your proficiency bonus to the beast’s AC, attack rolls, and damage rolls, as well as to any saving throws and skills it is proficient in. Its hit point maximum equals its normal maximum or four times your ranger level, whichever is higher. The beast obeys your commands as best as it can. It takes its turn on your initiative, though it doesn’t take an action unless you command it to. On your turn, you can verbally command the beast where to move (no action required by you). You can use your action to verbally command it to take the Attack, Dash, Disengage, Dodge, or Help action. Once you have the Extra Attack feature, you can make one w eapon attack yourself when you command the beast to take the Attack action. While traveling through your favored terrain with only the beast, you can move stealthily at a normal pace. If the beast dies, you can obtain another one by spending 8 hours magically bonding with another beast that isn’t hostile to you, either the same type o f beast as before or a different one.
Beginning at 7th level, on any o f your turns when your beast companion doesn’t attack, you can use a bonus action to command the beast to take the Dash, Disengage, Dodge, or Help action on its turn.
Starting at 11th level, your beast companion can make two attacks when you command it to use the Attack action.
Beginning at 15th level, when you cast a spell targeting yourself, you can also affect your beast companion with the spell if the beast is within 30 feet o f you.
