You have learned to regain some o f your magical energy by studying your spellbook. Once per day when you finish a short rest, you can choose expended spell slots to recover. The spell slots can have a combined level that is equal to or less than half your wizard level (rounded up), and none o f the slots can be 6th level or higher. For example, if you’re a 4th-level wizard, you can recover up to two levels worth o f spell slots. You can recover either a 2nd-level spell slot or two 1st-level spell slots.
At 18th level, you have achieved such mastery over certain spells that you can cast them at will. Choose a 1st-level w izard spell and a 2nd-level w izard spell that are in your spellbook. You can cast those spells at their lowest level without expending a spell slot when you have them prepared. If you want to cast either spell at a higher level, you must expend a spell slot as normal. By spending 8 hours in study, you can exchange one or both o f the spells you chose for different spells of the same levels.
When you reach 20th level, you gain mastery over two powerful spells and can cast them with little effort. Choose two 3rd-level wizard spells in your spellbook as your signature spells. You always have these spells prepared, they don’t count against the number o f spells you have prepared, and you can cast each o f them once at 3rd level without expending a spell slot. W hen you do so, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest. If you want to cast either spell at a higher level, you must expend a spell slot as normal.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy an abjuration spell into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level, you can weave magic around yourself for protection. When you cast an abjuration spell o f 1st level or higher, you can simultaneously use a strand of the spell’s magic to create a magical ward on yourself that lasts until you finish a long rest. The ward has hit points equal to twice your w izard level + your Intelligence modifier. Whenever you take damage, the ward takes the damage instead. If this damage reduces the ward to 0 hit points, you take any remaining damage. While the ward has 0 hit points, it can’t absorb damage, but its magic remains. Whenever you cast an abjuration spell o f 1st level or higher, the ward regains a number o f hit points equal to twice the level o f the spell. Once you create the ward, you can't create it again until you finish a long rest.
Starting at 6th level, when a creature that you can see within 30 feet o f you takes damage, you can use your reaction to cause your Arcane Ward to absorb that damage. If this damage reduces the w ard to 0 hit points, the warded creature takes any remaining damage.
Beginning at 10th level, when you cast an abjuration spell that requires you to make an ability check as a part o f casting that spell (as in counterspell and dispel magic), you add your proficiency bonus to that ability check.
Starting at 14th level, you have advantage on saving throws against spells. Furthermore, you have resistance against the damage o f spells.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy a conjuration spell into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level when you select this school, you can use your action to conjure up an inanimate object in your hand or on the ground in an unoccupied space that you can see within 10 feet o f you. This object can be no larger than 3 feet on a side and weigh no more than 10 pounds, and its form must be that of a nonmagical object that you have seen. The object is visibly magical, radiating dim light out to 5 feet. The object disappears after 1 hour, when you use this feature again, or if it takes any damage.
Starting at 6th level, you can use your action to teleport up to 30 feet to an unoccupied space that you can see. Alternatively, you can choose a space within range that is occupied by a Small or M edium creature. If that creature is willing, you both teleport, swapping places. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a long rest or you cast a conjuration spell of 1st level or higher.
Beginning at 10th level, while you are concentrating on a conjuration spell, your concentration can’t be broken as a result o f taking damage.
Starting at 14th level, any creature that you summon or create with a conjuration spell has 30 temporary hit points.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy a divination spell into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level when you choose this school, glimpses o f the future begin to press in on your awareness. When you finish a long rest, roll two d20s and record the numbers rolled. You can replace any attack roll, saving throw, or ability check made by you or a creature that you can see with one o f these foretelling rolls. You must choose to do so before the roll, and you can replace a roll in this way only once per turn. Each foretelling roll can be used only once. When you finish a long rest, you lose any unused foretelling rolls.
Beginning at 6th level, casting divination spells comes so easily to you that it expends only a fraction o f your spellcasting efforts. When you cast a divination spell o f 2nd level or higher using a spell slot, you regain one expended spell slot. The slot you regain must be o f a level lower than the spell you cast and can’t be higher than 5th level.
Starting at 10th level, you can use your action to increase your powers o f perception. When you do so, choose one o f the following benefits, which lasts until you are incapacitated or you take a short or long rest. You can’t use the feature again until you finish a rest. Darkvision. You gain darkvision out to a range o f 60 feet, as described in chapter 8. Ethereal Sight. You can see into the Ethereal Plane within 60 feet o f you. Greater Comprehension. You can read any language. See Invisibility. You can see invisible creatures and objects within 10 feet o f you that are within line o f sight.
Starting at 14th level, the visions in your dreams intensify and paint a more accurate picture in your mind o f what is to come. You roll three d20s for your Portent feature, rather than two.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy an enchantment spell into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level when you choose this school, your soft w ords and enchanting gaze can magically enthrall another creature. A s an action, choose one creature that you can see within 5 feet of you. If the target can see or hear you, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against your wizard spell save DC or be charmed by you until the end o f your next turn. The charmed creature’s speed drops to 0, and the creature is incapacitated and visibly dazed. On subsequent turns, you can use your action to maintain this effect, extending its duration until the end o f your next turn. However, the effect ends if you move more than 5 feet away from the creature, if the creature can neither see nor hear you, or if the creature takes damage. Once the effect ends, or if the creature succeeds on its initial saving throw against this effect, you can’t use this feature on that creature again until you finish a long rest.
Beginning at 6th level, when a creature you can see within 30 feet o f you makes an attack roll against you, you can use your reaction to divert the attack, provided that another creature is within the attack’s range. The attacker must make a W isdom saving throw against your wizard spell save DC. On a failed save, the attacker must target the creature that is closest to it, not including you or itself. If multiple creatures are closest, the attacker chooses which one to target. On a successful save, you can’t use this feature on the attacker again until you finish a long rest. You must choose to use this feature before knowing whether the attack hits or misses. Creatures that can’t be charmed are immune to this effect.
Starting at 10th level, when you cast an enchantment spell o f 1st level or higher that targets only one creature, you can have it target a second creature.
At 14th level, you gain the ability to make a creature unaware o f your magical influence on it. When you cast an enchantment spell to charm one or more creatures, you can alter one creature’s understanding so that it remains unaware o f being charmed. Additionally, once before the spell expires, you can use your action to try to make the chosen creature forget some o f the time it spent charmed. The creature must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw against your wizard spell save DC or lose a number of hours o f its memories equal to 1 + your Charisma modifier (minimum 1). You can make the creature forget less time, and the amount o f time can’t exceed the duration of your enchantment spell.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy an evocation spell into your spellbook is halved.
Beginning at 2nd level, you can create pockets of relative safety within the effects o f your evocation spells. When you cast an evocation spell that affects other creatures that you can see, you can choose a number of them equal to 1 + the spell’s level. The chosen creatures automatically succeed on their saving throws against the spell, and they take no damage if they would normally take half damage on a successful save.
Starting at 6th level, your damaging cantrips affect even creatures that avoid the brunt o f the effect. When a creature succeeds on a saving throw against your cantrip, the creature takes half the cantrip’s damage (if any) but suffers no additional effect from the cantrip.
Beginning at 10th level, you can add your Intelligence modifier to the damage roll of any wizard evocation spell you cast.
Starting at 14th level, you can increase the power of your simpler spells. When you cast a w izard spell of 5th level or lower that deals damage, you can deal maximum damage with that spell. The first time you do so, you suffer no adverse effect. If you use this feature again before you finish a long rest, you take 2d12 necrotic damage for each level of the spell, immediately after you cast it. Each time you use this feature again before finishing a long rest, the necrotic damage per spell level increases by 1d 12. This damage ignores resistance and immunity.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy an illusion spell into your spellbook is halved.
When you choose this school at 2nd level, you learn the minor illusion cantrip. If you already know this cantrip, you learn a different w izard cantrip o f your choice. The cantrip doesn’t count against your number of cantrips known. When you cast minor illusion, you can create both a sound and an image with a single casting o f the spell.
Starting at 6th level, when you cast an illusion spell that has a duration of 1 minute or longer, you can use your action to change the nature o f that illusion (using the spell’s normal parameters for the illusion), provided that you can see the illusion.
Beginning at 10th level, you can create an illusory duplicate o f yourself as an instant, almost instinctual reaction to danger. When a creature makes an attack roll against you, you can use your reaction to interpose the illusory duplicate between the attacker and yourself. The attack automatically m isses you, then the illusion dissipates. Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a short or long rest.
By 14th level, you have learned the secret o f weaving shadow magic into your illusions to give them a semireality. When you cast an illusion spell o f 1st level or higher, you can choose one inanimate, nonmagical object that is part o f the illusion and make that object real. You can do this on your turn as a bonus action while the spell is ongoing. The object remains real for 1 minute. For example, you can create an illusion o f a bridge over a chasm and then make it real long enough for your allies to cross. The object can’t deal damage or otherwise directly harm anyone.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy a necromancy spell into your spellbook is halved.
At 2nd level, you gain the ability to reap life energy from creatures you kill with your spells. Once per turn when you kill one or more creatures with a spell of 1st level or higher, you regain hit points equal to twice the spell’s level, or three times its level if the spell belongs to the School o f Necromancy. You don’t gain this benefit for killing constructs or undead.
At 6th level, you add the animate dead spell to your spellbook if it is not there already. When you cast animate dead, you can target one additional corpse or pile o f bones, creating another zombie or skeleton, as appropriate. Whenever you create an undead using a necromancy spell, it has additional benefits: • The creature’s hit point maximum is increased by an amount equal to your w izard level. • The creature adds your proficiency bonus to its weapon damage rolls.
Beginning at 10th level, you have resistance to necrotic damage, and your hit point maximum can't be reduced. You have spent so much time dealing with undead and the forces that animate them that you have become inured to some of their worst effects.
Starting at 14th level, you can use magic to bring undead under your control, even those created by other wizards. As an action, you can choose one undead that you can see within 60 feet o f you. That creature must make a Charisma saving throw against your wizard spell save DC. If it succeeds, you can’t use this feature on it again. If it fails, it becomes friendly to you and obeys your commands until you use this feature again. Intelligent undead are harder to control in this way. If the target has an Intelligence o f 8 or higher, it has advantage on the saving throw. If it fails the saving throw and has an Intelligence o f 12 or higher, it can repeat the saving throw at the end o f every hour until it succeeds and breaks free.
Beginning when you select this school at 2nd level, the gold and time you must spend to copy a transmutation spell into your spellbook is halved.
Starting at 2nd level when you select this school, you can temporarily alter the physical properties o f one nonmagical object, changing it from one substance into another. You perform a special alchemical procedure on one object composed entirely o f wood, stone (but not a gemstone), iron, copper, or silver, transforming it into a different one o f those materials. For each 10 minutes you spend performing the procedure, you can transform up to 1 cubic foot o f material. After 1 hour, or until you lose your concentration (as if you w ere concentrating on a spell), the material reverts to its original substance.
Starting at 6th level, you can spend 8 hours creating a transmuter’s stone that stores transmutation magic. You can benefit from the stone yourself or give it to another creature. A creature gains a benefit o f your choice as long as the stone is in the creature’s possession. When you create the stone, choose the benefit from the following options: • Darkvision out to a range o f 60 feet, as described in chapter 8 • An increase to speed o f 10 feet while the creature is unencumbered • Proficiency in Constitution saving throws • Resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder damage (your choice whenever you choose this benefit) Each time you cast a transmutation spell o f 1st level or higher, you can change the effect o f your stone if the stone is on your person. If you create a new transmuter’s stone, the previous one ceases to function.
At 10th level, you add the polymorph spell to your spellbook, if it is not there already. You can cast polymorph without expending a spell slot. When you do so, you can target only yourself and transform into a beast w hose challenge rating is 1 or lower. Once you cast polymorph in this way, you can’t do so again until you finish a short or long rest, though you can still cast it normally using an available spell slot.
Starting at 14th level, you can use your action to consume the reserve of transmutation magic stored within your transmuter’s stone in a single burst. When you do so, choose one o f the following effects. Your transmuter’s stone is destroyed and can’t be remade until you finish a long rest. Major Transformation. You can transmute one nonmagical object—no larger than a 5-foot cube—into another nonmagical object o f similar size and mass and o f equal or lesser value. You must spend 10 minutes handling the object to transform it. Panacea. You remove all curses, diseases, and poisons affecting a creature that you touch with the transmuter’s stone. The creature also regains all its hit points. Restore Life. You cast the raise dead spell on a creature you touch with the transmuter’s stone, without expending a spell slot or needing to have the spell in your spellbook. Restore Youth. You touch the transmuter’s stone to a willing creature, and that creature’s apparent age is reduced by 3 d 10 years, to a minimum o f 13 years. This effect doesn’t extend the creature’s lifespan.