Personality Trait

1: I know a story relevant to almost every situation.
2: Whenever I come to a new place, I collect local rumors and spread gossip.
3: I’m a hopeless romantic, always searching for that “special someone.”
4: Nobody stays angry at me or around me for long, since I can defuse any amount of tension.
5: I love a good insult, even one directed at me.
6: I get bitter if I’m not the center of attention.
7: I’ll settle for nothing less than perfection.
8: I change my mood or my mind as quickly as I change key in a song.

Ideal

1: Beauty. When I perform, I make the world better than it was. (Good)
2: Tradition. The stories, legends, and songs of the past must never be forgotten, for they teach us who we are. (Lawful)
3: Creativity. The world is in need of new ideas and bold action. (Chaotic)
4: Greed. I’m only in it for the money and fame. (Evil)
5: People. I like seeing the smiles on people’s faces when I perform. That’s all that matters. (Neutral)
6: Honesty. Art should reflect the soul; it should come from within and reveal who we really are. (Any)

Bond

1: My instrument is my most treasured possession, and it reminds me of someone I love.
2: Someone stole my precious instrument, and someday I’ll get it back.
3: I want to be famous, whatever it takes.
4: I idolize a hero of the old tales and measure my deeds against that person’s.
5: I will do anything to prove myself superior to my hated rival.
6: I would do anything for the other members of my old troupe.

Flaw

1: I’ll do anything to win fame and renown.
2: I’m a sucker for a pretty face.
3: A scandal prevents me from ever going home again. That kind of trouble seems to follow me around.
4: I once satirized a noble who still wants my head. It was a mistake that I will likely repeat.
5: I have trouble keeping my true feelings hidden. My sharp tongue lands me in trouble.
6: Despite my best efforts, I am unreliable to my friends.
$
Entertainer Routine

1: Actor
2: Dancer
3: Fire-eater
4: Jester
5: Juggler
6: Instrumentalist
7: Poet
8: Singer
9: Storyteller
10: Tumbler