Personality trait

1: I judge people by their actions, not their words.
2: If someone is in trouble, I’m always ready to lend help.
3: When I set my mind to something, I follow through no matter what gets in my way.
4: I have a strong sense of fair play and always try to find the most equitable solution to arguments.
5: I’m confident in my own abilities and do what I can to instill confidence in others.
6: Thinking is for other people. I prefer action.
7: I misuse long words in an attempt to sound smarter.
8: I get bored easily. When am I going to get on with my destiny?

Ideal

1: Respect. People deserve to be treated with dignity and respect. (Good)
2: Fairness. No one should get preferential treatment before the law, and no one is above the law. (Lawful)
3: Freedom. Tyrants must not be allowed to oppress the people. (Chaotic)
4: Might. If I become strong, I can take what I want— what I deserve. (Evil)
5: Sincerity. There’s no good in pretending to be something I’m not. (Neutral)
6: Destiny. Nothing and no one can steer me away from my higher calling. (Any)

Bond

1: I have a family, but I have no idea where they are. One day, I hope to see them again.
2: I worked the land, I love the land, and I will protect the land.
3: A proud noble once gave me a horrible beating, and I will take my revenge on any bully I encounter.
4: My tools are symbols of my past life, and I carry them so that I will never forget my roots.
5: I protect those who cannot protect themselves.
6: I wish my childhood sweetheart had come with me to pursue my destiny.

Flaw

1: The tyrant who rules my land will stop at nothing to see me killed.
2: I’m convinced of the significance of my destiny, and blind to my shortcomings and the risk of failure.
3: The people who knew me when I was young know my shameful secret, so I can never go home again.
4: I have a weakness for the vices of the city, especially hard drink.
5: Secretly, I believe that things would be better if I were a tyrant lording over the land.
6: I have trouble trusting in my allies.

Defining Event

1: I stood up to a tyrant’s agents.
2: I saved people during a natural disaster.
3: I stood alone against a terrible monster.
4: I stole from a corrupt merchant to help the poor.
5: I led a militia to fight off an invading army.
6: I broke into a tyrant’s castle and stole weapons to arm the people.
7: I trained the peasantry to use farm implements as weapons against a tyrant’s soldiers.
8: A lord rescinded an unpopular decree after I led a symbolic act of protect against it.
9: A celestial, fey, or similar creature gave me a blessing or revealed my secret origin.
10: Recruited into a lord’s army, I rose to leadership and was commended for my heroism.