Personality Trait

1: I’ve been isolated for so long that I rarely speak, preferring gestures and the occasional grunt.
2: I am utterly serene, even in the face of disaster.
3: The leader of my community had something wise to say on every topic, and I am eager to share that wisdom.
4: I feel tremendous empathy for all who suffer.
5: I’m oblivious to etiquette and social expectations.
6: I connect everything that happens to me to a grand, cosmic plan.
7: I often get lost in my own thoughts and contemplation, becoming oblivious to my surroundings.
8: I am working on a grand philosophical theory and love sharing my ideas.

Ideal

1: Greater Good. My gifts are meant to be shared with all, not used for my own benefit. (Good)
2: Logic. Emotions must not cloud our sense of what is right and true, or our logical thinking. (Lawful)
3: Free Thinking. Inquiry and curiosity are the pillars of progress. (Chaotic)
4: Power. Solitude and contemplation are paths toward mystical or magical power. (Evil)
5: Live and Let Live. Meddling in the affairs of others only causes trouble. (Neutral)
6: Self-Knowledge. If you know yourself, there’s nothing left to know. (Any)

Bond

1: Nothing is more important than the other members of my hermitage, order, or association.
2: I entered seclusion to hide from the ones who might still be hunting me. I must someday confront them.
3: I’m still seeking the enlightenment I pursued in my seclusion, and it still eludes me.
4: I entered seclusion because I loved someone I could not have.
5: Should my discovery come to light, it could bring ruin to the world.
6: My isolation gave me great insight into a great evil that only I can destroy.

Flaw

1: Now that I've returned to the world, I enjoy its delights a little too much.
2: I harbor dark, bloodthirsty thoughts that my isolation and meditation failed to quell.
3: I am dogmatic in my thoughts and philosophy.
4: I let my need to win arguments overshadow friendships and harmony.
5: I’d risk too much to uncover a lost bit of knowledge.
6: I like keeping secrets and won’t share them with anyone.
$
Life of Seclusion

1: I was searching for spiritual enlightenment.
2: I was partaking of communal living in accordance with the dictates of a religious order.
3: I was exiled for a crime I didn’t commit.
4: I retreated from society after a life-altering event.
5: I needed a quiet place to work on my art, literature, music, or manifesto.
6: I needed to commune with nature, far from civilization.
7: I was the caretaker of an ancient ruin or relic.
8:I was a pilgrim in search of a person, place, or relic of spiritual significance.


L1