Personality Trait

1: I’m driven by a wanderlust that led me away from home.
2: I watch over my friends as if they were a litter of newborn pups.
3: I once ran twenty-five miles without stopping to warn to my clan of an approaching orc horde. I’d do it again if I had to.
4: I have a lesson for every situation, drawn from observing nature.
5: I place no stock in wealthy or well-mannered folk. Money and manners won’t save you from a hungry owlbear.
6: I’m always picking things up, absently fiddling with them, and sometimes accidentally breaking them.
7: I feel far more comfortable around animals than people.
8: I was, in fact, raised by wolves.

Ideal

1: Change. Life is like the seasons, in constant change, and we must change with it. (Chaotic)
2: Greater Good. It is each person’s responsibility to make the most happiness for the whole tribe. (Good)
3: Honor. If I dishonor myself, I dishonor my whole clan. (Lawful)
4: Might. The strongest are meant to rule. (Evil)
5: Nature. The natural world is more important than all the constructs of civilization. (Neutral)
6: Glory. I must earn glory in battle, for myself and my clan. (Any)

Bond

1: My family, clan, or tribe is the most important thing in my life, even when they are far from me.
2: An injury to the unspoiled wilderness of my home is an injury to me.
3: I will bring terrible wrath down on the evildoers who destroyed my homeland.
4: I am the last of my tribe, and it is up to me to ensure their names enter legend.
5: I suffer awful visions of a coming disaster and will do anything to prevent it.
6: It is my duty to provide children to sustain my tribe.

Flaw

1: I am too enamored of ale, wine, and other intoxicants.
2: There’s no room for caution in a life lived to the fullest.
3: I remember every insult I’ve received and nurse a silent resentment toward anyone who’s ever wronged me.
4: I am slow to trust members of other races, tribes, and societies.
5: Violence is my answer to almost any challenge.
6: Don’t expect me to save those who can’t save themselves. It is nature’s way that the strong thrive and the weak perish.

Origin

1: Forester
2: Trapper
3: Homesteader
4: Guide
5: Exile or outcast
6: Bounty hunter
7: Pilgrim
8: Tribal nomad
9: Hunter-gatherer
10: Tribal marauder

L1