Personality Traits

1: I idolize a particular hero of my faith, and constantly refer to that person’s deeds and example.
2: I can find common ground between the fiercest enemies, empathizing with them and always working towards peace.
3: I see omens in every event and action. The gods try to speak to us, we just need to listen
4: Nothing can shake my optimistic attitude.
5: I quote (or misquote) sacred texts and proverbs in almost every situation.
6: I am tolerant (or intolerant) of other faiths and respect (or condemn) the worship of other gods.
7: I've enjoyed fine food, drink, and high society among my temple’s elite. Rough living grates on me.
8: I’ve spent so long in the temple that I have little practical experience dealing with people in the outside world.

Ideal

1: Tradition. The ancient traditions of worship and sacrifice must be preserved and upheld. (Lawful)
2: Charity. I always try to help those in need, no matter what the personal cost. (Good)
3: Change. We must help bring about the changes the gods are constantly working in the world. (Chaotic)
4: Power. I hope to one day rise to the top of my faith’s religious hierarchy. (Lawful)
5: Faith. I trust that my deity will guide my actions, I have faith that if I work hard, things will go well. (Lawful)
6: Aspiration. I seek to prove myself worthy of my god’s favor by matching my actions against his or her teachings. (Any)

Bond

1: I would die to recover an ancient relic of my faith that was lost long ago.
2: I will someday get revenge on the corrupt temple hierarchy who branded me a heretic.
3: I owe my life to the priest who took me in when my parents died.
4: Everything I do is for the common people.
5: I will do anything to protect the temple where I served.
6: I seek to preserve a sacred text that my enemies consider heretical and seek to destroy.

Flaw

1: I judge others harshly, and myself even more severely.
2: I put too much trust in those who wield power within my temple’s hierarchy.
3: My piety sometimes leads me to blindly trust those that profess faith in my god.
4: I am inflexible in my thinking.
5: I am suspicious of strangers and expect the worst of them.
6: Once I pick a goal, I become obsessed with it to the detriment of everything else in my life.


L2