Personality Trait

1: I believe that anything worth doing is worth doing right. I can’t help it— I’m a perfectionist.
2: I’m a snob who looks down on those who can’t appreciate fine art.
3: I always want to know how things work and what makes people tick.
4: I’m full of witty aphorisms and have a proverb for every occasion.
5: I’m rude to people who lack my commitment to hard work and fair play.
6: I like to talk at length about my profession.
7: I don’t part with my money easily and will haggle tirelessly to get the best deal possible.
8: I’m well known for my work, and I want to make sure everyone appreciates it. I'm always taken aback when people haven’t heard of me.

Ideal

1: Community. It is the duty of all civilized people to strengthen the bonds of community and the security of civilization. (Lawful)
2: Generosity. My talents were given to me so that I could use them to benefit the world. (Good)
3: Freedom. Everyone should be free to pursue his or her own livelihood. (Chaotic)
4: Greed. I’m only in it for the money. (Evil)
5: People. I’m committed to the people I care about, not to ideals. (Neutral)
6: Aspiration. I work hard to be the best there is at my craft.

Bond

1: The workshop where I learned my trade is the most important place in the world to me.
2: I created a great work for someone, and then found them unworthy to receive it. I’m still looking for someone worthy.
3: I owe my guild a great debt for forging me into the person I am today.
4: I pursue wealth to secure someone’s love.
5: One day I will return to my guild and prove that I am the greatest artisan of them all.
6: I will get revenge on the evil forces that destroyed my place of business and ruined my livelihood.

Flaw

1: I’ll do anything to get my hands on something rare or priceless.
2: I’m quick to assume that someone is trying to cheat me.
3: No one must ever learn that I once stole money from guild coffers.
4: I’m never satisfied with what I have— I always want more.
5: I would kill to acquire a noble title.
6: I’m horribly jealous of anyone who can outshine my handiwork. Everywhere I go, I’m surrounded by rivals.
$
Guild Business

1: Alchemists and apothecaries
2: Armorers, locksmiths, and finesmiths
3: Brewers, distillers, and vintners
4: Calligraphers, scribes, and scriveners
5: Carpenters, roofers, and plasterers
6: Cartographers, surveyors, and chart-makers
7: Cobblers and shoemakers
8: Cooks and bakers
9: Glassblowers and glaziers
10: Jewelers and gemcutters
11: Leatherworkers, skinners, and tanners
12: Masons and stonecutters
13: Painters, limners, and sign-makers
14: Potters and tile-makers
15: Shipwrights and sailmakers
16: Smiths and metal-forgers
17: Tinkers, pewterers, and casters
18: Wagon-makers and wheelwrights
19: Weavers and dyers
20: Woodcarvers, coopers, and bowyers